Pamela McCormick has this quote that I like I'll talk to her a couple of years
ago, or I guess already in this podcast that, um,
that artificial intelligence began with Angela wish to forge the gods.
So do you think artificial intelligence
may become the very kind of
gods that, uh,
where the center of our, the religions of most of our history?
Yeah, there's a lot there.
So I'm going to start by addressing this idea of
artificial intelligence being separate from human beings. Okay.
So I don't think that's actually, that might happen. Okay.
I mean, it's already happened, but let's put it this way.
Like you're talking about super artificial intelligence,
like autonomous conscious artificial intelligence. Okay. Yeah. Okay.
Well the artificial cautiousness, uh, first of all, I, I think she's correct.
Okay. But also there's an awesome quote. Um,
I'd also like to bring up this, uh, writer of fiction actually,
um, Ted Chang and his, one of his essays. He writes short essays.
One of them was the basis for the movie arrival, which if you haven't seen it,
it's a really great movie about UFO's. Uh,
and.
It has a very creative way of proposing an idea of how they might be able to
communicate how w w w first of all, how they appear to us, second of all,
how they may be communicating with us humans.
Exactly. Um, the author, Ted chain has a lot.
I recommend his, his writings, his short stories. Um,
one is very short and it appeared as it appeared in
nature about 20 years ago. And it is called,
I think it's called getting,
eating the crumbs from the table or something like that.
And it's basically the short essay. And I hate to do, you know, to,
to do a spoiler here, but if you don't want to know what it's about,
don't listen right now. Yeah. Okay. So this is what it's about.
So basically it's about human beings, uh,
becoming two different species. Okay. And one of them is created,
they're called meta-humans and they start biohacking themselves with tech.
Okay. Sound familiar.
So they do this and they become meta-humans and S another
species. Right. And, you know, just kind of have another fork, um,
such that humans can barely understand them.
Um, because they're so far removed. So in a sense,
are they gods, right? No, they're meta-humans are superhumans.
They're enhanced humans. Okay. I see that hopefully on the horizon, frankly.
I hope so. Not that we have two species,
but that we can use our technology or we can,
we can become so integrated with our technology that we can
survive. Okay. We can survive. The radiation is space.
We can't go places now because of the radiation in space,
perhaps we can develop our bodies such that we can survive the radiation in
space. So there, there's this idea of these meta-humans.
Now there's also this idea that technology is just another
form of humans. We've created it. Right.
And so maybe it is bent on surviving, thereby using us,
you know, kind of as a meme or a team. Some people are calling them teams.
Now these self-generating, uh,
they're replicating themselves through us. Okay. I see that also.
And I don't think that's terribly bad.
Maybe it's just the way that we are evolving. It doesn't mean that the,
you know, we're evolving all the time. Like we're taller than we used to be.
You know, we have different skills and, you know,
so I don't see that as, as a bad thing.
I think a lot of people see it as if we're not how we are now is a tragedy,
but it's not a tragedy how we are now is actually a tragedy for most people
alive.
Yeah. And that we might be evolving ways we can't possibly have perceive,
like you said, that, uh,
the humans have created Twitter and Twitter may be changing us
in ways that we can't even understand. Now currently,
like from a perspective of,
if you look at the entirety of the network of Twitter,
that might be an organism that this,
now the organism understands what's happening from
its level of perception. But we,
humans are just like the cells of the human body who are interacting
individually. But like,
we're not actually aware of the big picture that's happening.
And we naturally somehow,
or whatever the force that's creating the entirety of this, whatever. Uh, one,
um, one version of it is the evolutionary process, like biological evolution,
whatever force that is,
is just creating these greater and greater level of complexity.
And maybe somehow not other kinds of non-human intelligence are
involved that we're calling alien intelligences.